so this is week two in a series that
I've entitled hero of the faith and the
whole point of this series is to prove
what Jesus tells us in Luke 24 which was
the passage that we looked at last week
that the plotline of the Bible is Jesus
centered oftentimes we go to the Bible
we read the Bible with great intentions
but were terribly confused by the Bible
because we don't really know what God is
saying there and so Jesus tells us in
Luke 24 that the whole Bible is about
him that the Bible is not primarily
about the work of the redeemed but the
work of the Redeemer and he tells the
two men on the road to Emmaus
that the entire Bible testifies to him
that he is the point of every part of
the Bible that he is the climax of every
theme in the Bible and that he is the
true and better version of every figure
in the Bible and the reason that those
two disciples who were on the road to
Emmaus were sad and despairing and
depressed is because they had read the
Bible wrongly they had understood the
Bible wrongly they understood it to be
first and foremost about them and Jesus
taught them that no it was first and
foremost about him probably the best
resource and this is no joke okay
probably the best resource that I have
ever encountered to help me understand
the Jesus centered plotline of the
entire Bible is the Jesus story book
Bible which is a children's Bible
written by Sally Lloyd Jones it's an
amazing resource it she does an amazing
job of going through all of the stories
in the Bible and showing how all of the
stories point to Jesus I've been reading
that storybook Bible to my three kids
for years now and believe it or not I
hate to admit this being trained the way
that I've been trained academically I
consult the Jesus story book Bible
before I preach just about every sermon
I preached okay
it's an amazing resource it really is in
fact I tell people and I told Sally this
when someone comes to me and says I I'm
a relatively new Christian and I want to
begin reading the Bible I give them two
books I hand them Sally's book the Jesus
story but Bible and I said read this
first take a week and read this first
then read the Bible and the reason is
not because the Jesus story book Bible
is as important as the Bible it's that I
don't want people getting lost when they
read the Bible and they will get lost as
many Christians do lost between the
trees if they don't first get a good
understanding of the forest and her
resource does that remarkably let me
just sort of whet your appetite this is
what she says in the introduction some
people think the Bible is a book of
rules telling you what you should and
shouldn't do the Bible certainly does
have some rules in it they show you how
life works best but the Bible isn't
mainly about you and what you should be
doing it's about God and what he has
done other people think the Bible is a
book of heroes showing you people you
should copy the Bible does have some
heroes in it but as you'll soon find out
most of the people in the Bible aren't
heroes at all they make big mistakes
sometimes on purpose they get afraid and
run away at times they're downright mean
no the Bible isn't first a book of rules
or a book of heroes the Bible is first
and most of all a story it's an
adventure story about a young hero who
comes from a far country to win back his
lost treasure it's a love story about a
brave prince who leaves his palace has
thrown everything to rescue the ones he
loves
it's like the most wonderful of fairy
tales that has come true in real life
you see the best thing about this story
is it's true there are lots of stories
in the Bible but all the stories are
telling one big story the story of how
God loves his children and comes to
rescue them it takes the whole Bible to
tell this story and at the center of the
story there is a baby every store
in the bible whispers his name he is
like the missing piece in the puzzle the
piece that makes all the other pieces
fit together that may be one of the best
short descriptions of what the Bible is
about that I've ever read she hits it
right on the head
she basically summarizes what Jesus told
the two on the road to Emmaus in Luke 24
the Bible tells one story and it points
to one figure it tells the story of how
God rescues a broken world and points to
Jesus who accomplishes this and as I
said last week the the Old Testament in
all of its parts predicts this rescuer
and the New Testament in all of its
parts presents this rescuer the Bible is
God's single story of great sinners in
need of and being met by an even greater
Savior and this means as I mentioned
last week that the Bible is not first a
recipe book for Christian living but a
revelation book of Jesus who is the
answer to our unchristian living okay
there's a big difference between those
two things and this week I want to look
at Adam I want to begin at the beginning
which is always a good place to begin
okay